In this lab we're going to cover multipart upload so when you have larger objects that you want to upload
into AWS you'll find that you need to break the files into pieces and upload them in parallel.
And there's a couple of ways that this can be done.
You can split the file yourself into much multiple pieces or you can allow AWS to do it.
If you use the CLI multipart upload is typically a use case for when your uploads are or your fault
your individual objects are 100 megabytes in size or more and you can upload objects as large as five
gigabytes which is free now the benefits of doing it using multipart upload are that it improves throughput
because you're uploading different parts of the file in parallel.
You can also recover better from any network issues that might take place.
So it will minimize the impacts of restarting a failed upload.
If you have a network error you can also pause and reduce resume the uploads.
So that means that you can do it over time choose the best times to perform your uploads and pause and
then started again when you need to stop it for some reason.
You can also start and upload before you know the final object size
which means you can actually be uploading an object as you are creating it.
There are several SDKs that you can work with to programmatically implement multipart upload and those
include Java .NET, PHP, Ruby and REST.
Now this is a good article you can have a look through and find quite a lot of information about what
multipart upload is and then what we're actually going to do in this exercise is use the CLI.
So it's easy to perform a multipart upload of a file.
Now if you look for this article it tells you how to do it and there's quite a bit of information here.
Quite a few different command lines and the key thing I want you to take from this is that AWS is telling
you that you shouldn't use the S3 API unless the S3 command doesn't support the upload requirements.
So that's the AWS S3 API which is more low level than the AWS S3 commands and therefore AWS
would recommend using AWS S3 wherever possible so you can have a look through this and it gives
you quite a bit of detail on how to do it using even those command line options.
So we're just gonna head over to a command line and we're just going to issue the AWS S3 ls command
and we can see that we have a bucket or two buckets there.
I want to have a look inside the DCT company bucket just to see what we have in there and so currently
we just have the my document document and then we have a couple of folders as well.
So I'm just going to see what I have here and I know I have a file a large file so this mp3 here.
Let's just look at a bit more detail this mp3 for excuse me is about 165 MBs in size.
So what I want to do is upload that file to AWS so I'm going to type the command aws s3 cp
for copy and then I'm gonna put the file name in and then I'm going to let it know which
bucket I want to put it into
and we hit enter
Now what you'll find is for a second it looks like it's pausing but what it will do is because it's
a large file it's actually going to automatically break up this file into pieces and send them in parallel
and in a second we'll see that popping up on the screen.
So now we can see that there are 20 parts that the file is being broken into and it's going to upload
those in parallel
so that took a couple of minutes and the file was uploaded.
Another way that you would be able to if you want to play around with using the S3 API command and uploading
pieces of your file on a Mac or Linux system you can use the split command so I can say split the
60 megabytes and then I can choose my file and then if I do an ls I need.
So what I need to do is put in the file name again and then it will give me a different version of that
file so then we have the files we have my large file and then my large folder and before a b and I see.
So that's a way that you can split it up in this case just a few files if you had a really huge file
gigabytes in size then you'd put it broken in some more pieces so that's multiplied upload.
The main thing to remember for the exam is that it's recommended to use multipart upload when your files
are 100 megabytes or more in size.
Typically in a production scenario you would use one of the SDK and do it programmatically but as you
can see even if you use the client will automatically break files up for you.